#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
One intersting thing ius learn abaveo my reasearch klast week was heitrachal
 softmax.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Softmax is for classigfcation of fbalc balc bad l
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
into classes.
 The softmax clasrrifier outopuss a seris of cavalures betyween zero and
 one, like the sigmoid 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
but in this case of the sotfm ax the calassiffer output values are normalised
 -- they sum to 1.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Heirachical soft mas x is the4 special case of this designed ot be daster.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Instead of outoutting just a single one hot repre based respressentatioin
 we output a series of descision on a binearty tree.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
belach balch balch balch balch ablc blacb hb la bal,ds ble b
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
in normal softmax each element of the output vector is a repre th.
 era ios this descrete proabbility of the inopyu being in that particular
 class.
 but in H irachical socf t max it is not.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Logicallyt Hierachical softmax splits the problem into a series of binary
 desxcisions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Each one based on the model -- with is the hideen layers of the network,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First decide left or right.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If we encode the outoput usign a Huffman enchode -- a tree based on the
 probability be eaqyual then it is a.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
