#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrartcl
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{url}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
PhD Research Proposal
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Lyndon White
\end_layout

\begin_layout Address
School of Electrical, Electronic and Computer Engineering
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Faculty of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

The University of Western Australia
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Project Title and Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Project Title
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Semantic Vector Representations of Natural Language
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The research will investigate methods for the production and utilization
 of vector representations of natural language preserving meaning.
 Algorithms producing vector embeddings of sentences and longer documents
 currently exist, however the field is still developing.
 Existing methods have not been shown to sufficiently preserve meaning in
 the vector representation.
 There has also only been limited investigation in to reversing the projection
 and resynthesis text from the embedding space.
 The aims of this project are thus:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Develop a method for producing semantically consistent vector representations
 of sentences.
 This includes evaluating and extending existing methods, and developing
 new ones.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Develop a method for resynthesizing text from such vector embeddings.
 This may be in the form of an extension of a current methods, if they meet
 the previous aim, or developing new algorithms with the capacity inherent.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Utilize algorithms in the vector space, to carry out tasks in the natural
 language space.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
