#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
My approch to finding and organisting the literature i need for my research
 is
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once I have a paper, 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I add it to my bibtex database in Jabref
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Alway, no exceptions, good or bad -- before i read it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I then come back to it after reading (at least some of it) and add to the
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Annotations field
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And ideally also fix its bibtex key and its keywords.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ideally from the bibtex source, I have a correct reference structure for
 it, including Abstract.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Google Scholar is Ok, but never includes abstract or URL.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I always make sure I have URL, because then no matter what computer I am
 on i can retrive it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Having annotations, keywords and the abstract means I can find papers on
 a topic by searching inside my master bibliography.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From my master bibliography I can reference whatever subset I need for any
 document I am preparing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I collect references often via google scholar which is not ideal.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I get a lot from the references I have.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
